docs: gas-fees-consolidation (#3198)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/build-decentralized-apps/02-how-to-estimate-gas.mdx

```
Transaction fees (TXFEES) = L2 Gas Price (P) * Gas Limit (G)
```

The gas limit includes the gas for child chain computation plus an additional buffer to cover the parent chain gas the Sequencer pays when [posting the batch](/how-arbitrum-works/deep-dives/sequencer.mdx):

```
Gas Limit (G) = Gas used on L2 (L2G) + Extra Buffer for L1 cost (B)
```

The buffer accounts for the cost of posting the transaction (batched and compressed) on the parent chain. The parent chain estimated posting cost is:

```
L1 Estimated Cost (L1C) = L1 price per byte of data (L1P) * Size of data to be posted in bytes (L1S)
```

Where:

- **L1P** estimates the current parent chain price per byte of data, dynamically adjusted by the child chain over time
- **L1S** estimates how many bytes the transaction will occupy in the batch by compressing it with Brotli

The buffer converts this cost into child chain gas units:

```
Extra Buffer (B) = L1 Estimated Cost (L1C) / L2 Gas Price (P)
```

Combining everything:

```
TXFEES = P * (L2G + ((L1P * L1S) / P))
```

## Where to get each variable

> We use the [`NodeInterface`](/build-decentralized-apps/nodeinterface/02-reference.mdx) to retrieve the fee components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the [`NodeInterface`](/build-decentralized-apps/nodeinterface/02-reference.mdx) to retrieve the fee components:
```
